CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Install

The `jlpm` command is JupyterLab's pinned version of
[yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) that is installed with JupyterLab. You may use
`yarn` or `npm` in lieu of `jlpm` below.

```bash
# Clone the repo to your local environment
# Move to jupyterlab-h5web directory

# Install package in development mode
pip install -e .
# Ensure that `jupyterlab_hdf` server extension is present and enabled
jupyter serverextension list

# Install dependencies
jlpm
# Build Typescript source
jlpm build
# Link your development version of the extension with JupyterLab
jupyter labextension install .
# Rebuild Typescript source after making changes
jlpm build
# Rebuild JupyterLab after making any changes
jupyter lab build
```

You can watch the source directory and run JupyterLab in watch mode to watch for changes in the extension's source and automatically rebuild the extension and application.

```bash
# Watch the source directory in another terminal tab
jlpm watch
# Run jupyterlab in watch mode in one terminal tab
jupyter lab --watch
```

Now every change will be built locally and bundled into JupyterLab. Be sure to refresh your browser page after saving file changes to reload the extension (note: you'll need to wait for webpack to finish, which can take 10s+ at times).

## Formatting

This extension uses `prettier` to format `*.ts` files and `black` to format `*.py` files.

## Uninstall

```bash
pip uninstall jupyterlab_h5web
jupyter labextension uninstall jupyterlab-h5web
```

Commit message:

Updated docs with the release process

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Install

The `jlpm` command is JupyterLab's pinned version of
[yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) that is installed with JupyterLab. You may use
`yarn` or `npm` in lieu of `jlpm` below.

```bash
# Clone the repo to your local environment
# Move to jupyterlab-h5web directory

# Install package in development mode
pip install -e .
# Ensure that `jupyterlab_hdf` server extension is present and enabled
jupyter serverextension list

# Install dependencies
jlpm
# Build Typescript source
jlpm build
# Link your development version of the extension with JupyterLab
jupyter labextension install .
# Rebuild Typescript source after making changes
jlpm build
# Rebuild JupyterLab after making any changes
jupyter lab build
```

You can watch the source directory and run JupyterLab in watch mode to watch for changes in the extension's source and automatically rebuild the extension and application.

```bash
# Watch the source directory in another terminal tab
jlpm watch
# Run jupyterlab in watch mode in one terminal tab
jupyter lab --watch
```

Now every change will be built locally and bundled into JupyterLab. Be sure to refresh your browser page after saving file changes to reload the extension (note: you'll need to wait for webpack to finish, which can take 10s+ at times).

## Formatting

This extension uses `prettier` to format `*.ts` files and `black` to format `*.py` files.

## PyPI package

### Why a Python package for a front-end extension ?

1. To ease up installation (e.g. automatic resolution of the `jupyter_hdf` PyPI package)
2. To get ready to release a pre-built extension (_JupyterLab 3_)

The pre-built extension will indeed remove the need for `node`. For _JupyterLab 2_, the extension must be included in JupyterLab at build. As a consequence, the PyPI package contains the TypeScript sources so that the installation of the PyPI package triggers a build of these sources (needing `node`).

In _JupyterLab 3_, we will be able to pre-build the extension and release it as the PyPI package.

### Metadata

The metadata (author, licence, version...) is set in `package.json` that acts as a the single source of truth. The metadata of the PyPI package (`setup.py`) is fetched from `package.json`.

### Release process

The release process is adapted from [the one from h5web](https://github.com/silx-kit/h5web/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#release-process).

To release a new version:

- Check out `master` and pull the latest changes.
- Make sure your working tree doesn't have uncommitted changes and that the latest commit on `master` has passed the CI.
- Run `npm version [ patch | minor | major | <new-version> ]`

This command bumps the version number in `package.json`, commits the change and then tags the commit with the same version number. The `postversion` script then runs automatically and pushes the new commit and the new tag. This, in turn, triggers the _Release_ workflow on the CI, which builds and publishes the package to PyPI.
